# Readme.md

# Strategies
Strategies are instruments to formalize the chain of thought process though the use of
pre formulated thought steps and behaviors. They form an integral part of the prompts
generated by 'prompt_instructs.py' and are used to guide the model in a certain direction.

There is two general types of strategies. __Methodical__ and __I/O__ strategies.

## Methodical strategies
These strategies are of cognitive nature in the sense that they ask the model to 
perform a certain cognitive task like question summarization, aggregation or breakdown.
They are used as simple thoughts in a chain of thoughts to extract procedural information (what can we do next) from a prompt, or to they are used to aggregate and prepare thought process results.

## I/O strategies
These strategies are of a more technical nature in the sense that they ask the model to
output the information in a certain way or format. They are used to homogenize or 
interconnect the information flow in the thought process. 

## Parameters
Strategies are called using the __'strat_templates'__ argument like:

```python
# List of names to call the strategies with
strat_templates = ['qa_simple', 'agg_best']
```
For each of these names there is a corresponding strategy file.yml inside the __'strats'__ 
and/or __'io'__ directory.  i.e. __'.../resource_dir/io/qa_simple.yml'__
Normally a thought uses exacly on single methodical strategy and one single I/O strategy.

## Default behavior
If no strategies are provided, but the response format fmt ['json', 'yml', ...] is provided, the default behavior for the package is to use the __'Instructions.default_strats'__ as defined inside 'prompt_instructs.py' __class Instructions__.
If also NO output format 'fmt' is defined, the default I/O strategy is also rejected and 
the model is asked to respond in plain text.